History of e2ansi
=================

On Stackoverflow, 2014-06-20, the user "Peter" asked the following
question (http://stackoverflow.com/questions/24329865):

    "Using emacs in batch mode to dump a file with syntax highlighting?

I'd like to use emacs in some kind of batch mode to just render a file
with syntax highlighting and exit. Specifically, I want to dump the
fontified buffer with ANSI escape codes so that it shows up reasonably
syntax-highlighted on my terminal. Is there any way to do this?

The ansi-lpr.el library seems to be kind of along the lines of what I
want, but the output isn't colorified. I can't figure out how to get
over that final hurdle -- there are a lot of modules to digest ANSI
escape codes into Emacs text properties (e.g. ansi-color.el) but I
haven't found anything that does the reverse. If anyone can point me
to something that does, I think I can piece together the rest.

Alternatively, I've seen some hacky approaches like this answer (using
script and capturing the output) but in my experiments that approach
has seemed unlikely to be fruitful -- you get tons of undesirable
control sequences mixed in with the highlighted text.

The overarching motivation here is to use emacs in a $LESSOPEN pipe to
get syntax highlighting when I page files. In case you're going to say
it, I've tried and "just page files in Emacs" is not acceptable for
me."


Some months later, I posted the following:


I'm glad to announce a new package, **e2ansi**, that (hopefully) does
what you asked for.

The package provides a command-line tool `e2ansi-cat` that starts
Emacs in batch mode, opens files, syntax highlight them (using
font-lock), and creates ANSI-colored versions of the syntax
highlighted files.

You can integrate this into `less` by setting the following variables
to, for example:

    export "LESSOPEN=|emacs --batch -Q -l ~/.emacs -l bin/e2ansi-cat %s"
    export "LESS=-r -j20"
    export MORE=$LESS

The end result looks like the following:

![Example][1]

You can vary the colors and attributes like bold, underline, and
italics by using a suitable Emacs theme.

The e2ansi package is located at https://github.com/Lindydancer/e2ansi

### Personal note

I would like to thank you for posting this question, it directly
inspired me to write e2ansi.


  [1]: http://i.stack.imgur.com/w28c5.png
